+++
title = "A personal update, and last quotes from Growth of the Soil"
date = 2007-08-19T15:58:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:05:31Z
tags = ["frugality", "literature", "education", "finance", "business", "Muskegon", "Chicago", "West Michigan", "personal"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/109901750264132233987"
+++

The internship is over and I am home in Muskegon, happy to use the weather as an excuse to spend entire days reading in coffeeshops.  I am leaving for Japan on September 5th and my Japanese is very rusty, and there is plenty of IR and political theory I would like to cover before school starts in late September. <br /><br />This should be a wonderful week: home, family, friends, books, bowling, Muskegon, running on the lake.  August continues to be the best month yet this year for me - every side of life is good and I am excited about the future.  I love my apartment and roommates in Chicago, am in great shape for the cross-country season that starts next week, have read three new favorite novels over the past month (Steinbeck's <em>Travels with Charley </em>along with Knut Hamsun's <em>Growth of the Soil </em>and <em>Pan</em>), am satisfied with my now-completed internship, and will be in Tokyo in two and a half weeks.  Things are very, very good.<br /><br />The summer was difficult, not least because it was my first experience of working 50 hours a week in an office - that's a pretty big leap from academic life.  But I learned an incredible amount; it often felt like I was being paid to go to school.  Every day, I read <em>The Wall Street Journal</em> practically cover to cover as well as pages upon pages of other news sources, academic papers, and economic forecasts.  My discussions about economics with my supervisors - emerging market bond portfolio managers - felt like private office hours with a great professor.  I observed the way Wall Street functions and the way investment decisions are made by institutional investors.  I learned how bonds work and how political risk affects investment decisions, and developed a spreadsheet to quantify the effect of political risk on developing countries' creditworthiness.  I created economic forecasts for Brazil, Russia, India and China.  I learned about currency fluctuations, liquidity, the subprime mortgage meltdown, current accounts, economic indicators - and much more.  Every day, I was bombarded with information. <br /><br />I enjoyed some aspects of the job more than others, and found that my background had left me better prepared for the political risk analysis side of the work than for the economic forecasting and modeling side of the work.  But I also gained a new respect for the power and complexity of financial markets, and I realized that if one's goal is to understand the world in order to improve it, it is crucial to study markets as well as politics.  Political decisions create the space and the incentive structure in which markets function, but it is useful to think of politics and markets as intertwined and inseparable.<br /><br />I have a long way to go and a lot to study on all fronts, which is a major reason why I am grateful for this week of peace at home in West Michigan. <br /><br />---<br /><em>Final quotes from Hamsun's </em>Growth of the Soil - <em>right up there with </em>The Brothers Karamazov, Anna Karenina, <em>and</em> War and Peace <em>as one of the absolute best novels I have ever gotten my hands on.  This book, like the others just mentioned, has reshaped the way I think and will hopefully reshape the way I live - it has inspired me to look away from the temptation of great wealth and great expectations, avoid being another rootless young person floating around the world's cities, investigate rather than avoid the issue of abortion and find ways to reduce it, and be content with making and spending less and leaving a lighter footprint on earth.  Check the book out <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Growth-Soil-Knut-Hamsun/dp/0143105108/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/002-3421197-6377666?ie=UTF8&s=books&amp;qid=1187556118&sr=8-1">here</a> on Amazon.com.</em><br /><br />Why could not folk go on living as well or as poorly now as before there had been any mine at all?  Well, they could not, and that was all about it.  They had grown accustomed to better food, finer bread, store-bought clothes and higher wages, general extravagance - aye, folk had learned to reckon with money more, that was the matter.  And now the money was gone again, had slipped away like a shoal of herring out to sea - 'twas dire distress for them all, and what was to be done?<br /><br />...<br /><br />Inger has made her stormy voyage, 'tis true, has lived in a city a while, but now she is home; the world is wide, swarming with tiny specks - Inger has been one of them.  All but nothing in all humanity, only one speck.  Then comes the evening.<br /><br />...<br /><br />Nothing growing there?  All things growing there; men and beasts and fruit of the soil.  Isak sowing his grain.  The evening sunlight falls on the grain that flashes out in an arc from his hand, and falls like a dropping of gold to the ground.  ... Forest and field look on.  All is majesty and power - a sequence and purpose of things.<br /><br />...<br /><br />A man of the wild was not put out by the thought of great things he could not get; art, newspapers, luxuries, politics and such-like were worth just what folk were willing to pay for them, no more.  Growth of the soil was something different, a thing to be procured at any cost; the only source, the origin of all.  A dull and desolate existence?  Nay, least of all.  A man had everything; his powers above, his dreams, his loves, his wealth of superstition.<br /><br />...<br /><br />There you are, living in touch with heaven and earth, one with them, one with all these wide, deep-rooted things.  No need of a sword in your hands, you go through life bareheaded, barehanded, in the midst of a great kindliness.  Look, Nature's there, for you and yours to have and enjoy.  Man and Nature don't bombard each other, but agree; they don't compete, race one against the other, but go together.  ... Fjeld and forest, moors and meadow, and sky and stars - oh, 'tis not poor and sparingly counted out, but without measure.  Listen to me, Sivert: you be content!  You've everything to live on, everything to live for, everything to believe in; being born and bringing forth, you are the needful on earth.  'Tis not all that are so, but you are so; needful on earth.  'Tis you that maintain life.  Generation to generation, breeding ever anew; and when you die, the new stock goes on.  That's the meaning of eternal life.<br /><br />Knut Hamsun<br />--<em>Growth of the Soil</em><div class="blogger-post-footer">---
Ryan McCarl
Homepage: http://ryanmccarl.com
Wide Awake Minds: http://www.wideawakeminds.com
Blog: http://blog.ryanmccarl.com
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ryanmccarl
Facebook: http://fb.wideawakeminds.com</div>
