+++
title = "A personal update and four quotes"
date = 2007-07-27T00:16:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T21:58:37Z
tags = ["friendship", "literature", "dogs", "Steinbeck", "loneliness", "Muskegon", "aging", "travel", "books", "Chicago", "personal"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/109901750264132233987"
+++

I am excited about the weekend. I'll be walking straight from work to Union Station tomorrow afternoon, and then the usual, happy routine of a quick trip home: the #370 <em>Pere Marquette </em>accompanied by caffeine and books (and, since it's summer, a wonderful sunset over the harbor in St. Joseph, MI), a late-night outing to Pints & Quarts and Pablo's Tacos with Muskegon friends, a Saturday morning trip to eat breakfast and shop for used books in Grand Haven, a few intense games of ping-pong with Tyler, and a run on the beach. Early Sunday morning, I'll be on the return train to Chicago and it will all seem surreal.<br /><br />Two unique and wonderful things about this trip. First: my family got a new dog, a black retriever named Maggie, whom I will have the pleasure of meeting for the first time tomorrow night. And second: on Saturday night, two friends and I are going to a Counting Crows and Collective Soul concert in Grand Rapids.<br /><br />--- <em>Quotes from tonight's reading: ---</em><br /><br />What I am saying is this: the score is not what matters. Life does not have to be regarded as a game in which scores are kept and somebody wins. If you are too intent on winning, you will never enjoy playing. If you are too obsessed with success, you will forget to live. If you have learned only how to be a success, your life has probably been wasted.<br /><br />Thomas Merton<br />--"Love and Living"<br /><br />When that time was over and the good-bys said, I had to go through the same lost loneliness all over again, and it was no less painful than at first. There seemed to be no cure for loneliness save only being alone.<br /><br />John Steinbeck<br />-- <em>Travels with Charley</em><br /><br /><em>From </em><strong>Blackberries for Amelia</strong><br /><br />As the far stars, of which we now are told<br />That ever faster they do bolt away,<br />And that a night may come in which, some say,<br />We shall have only blackness to behold.<br /><br />I have no time for any change so great,<br />But I shall see the August weather spur<br />Berries to ripen where the flowers were -<br />Dark berries, savage-sweet and worth the wait -<br /><br />And there will come the moment to be quick<br />And save some from the birds, and I shall need<br />Two pails, old clothes in which to stain and bleed,<br />And a grandchild to talk with while we pick.<br /><br />-<em>Richard Wilbur</em><br /><br />I can only imagine that the lonely man peoples his driving dreams with friends, that the loveless man surrounds himself with lovely loving women, and that children climb through the dreaming of the childless driver. And how about the areas of regrets? If only I had done so-and-so, or had not said such-and-such - my God, the damn thing might not have happened. Finding this potential in my own mind, I can suspect it in others, but I will never know, for no one ever tells. And this is why, on my journey which was designed for observation, I stayed as much as possible on secondary roads where there was much to see and hear and smell, and avoided the great wide traffic slashes which promote the self by fostering daydreams.<br /><br />John Steinbeck<br />--<em>Travels with Charley</em><br /><br />---<div class="blogger-post-footer">---
Ryan McCarl
Homepage: http://ryanmccarl.com
Wide Awake Minds: http://www.wideawakeminds.com
Blog: http://blog.ryanmccarl.com
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ryanmccarl
Facebook: http://fb.wideawakeminds.com</div>
