+++
title = "Back in the States!"
date = 2007-09-20T16:07:00Z
updated = 2007-09-20T17:33:18Z
tags = ["Japan", "literature", "Tokyo", "books", "Disney", "Kamakura", "university of chicago", "personal"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/109901750264132233987"
+++

I had a great time in Tokyo, and now I am home - in Muskegon overnight and driving to Chicago first thing tomorrow morning. I'll post a few of the best pictures from the trip over the weekend.<br /><br />A few of the things I did in Japan:<br /><br />-Reconnected with the Japanese people with whom I am closest - Ai (a former exchange student in Muskegon) and my former host family. Had many memorable outings with friends of Ai and became close with one in particular, a guitar-playing writer/actor named Okada who, at age 23, has already published two books of poetry in Japan.<br />-Took a scenic train that ran along the seacoast to Kamakura, a beautiful, tree-filled former capital of Japan that is filled with temples and shrines.<br />-Had dinner at a yakitori restaurant and drinks at an bar with <a href="http://www.jdorama.com/artiste_95.htm">Morimoto Reo</a> (Leo), an actor famous in Japan. We discussed politics, literature, translation, and all sorts of other things. He said that he had never expected to be able to have a real conversation with an American, so we went out and talked from six at night to 1:30 in the morning.<br />-Went to a members-only bar in Shinjuku run by another famous actor.<br />-Went to Tokyo Disneyland with my former host family. Heard the Enchanted Tiki Birds and the Country Bears sing in Japanese.<br />-Observed my first typhoon, Typhoon No. 10 (of the year), which hit Tokyo a few hours after I arrived.<br />-Ate at "Freshness Burger," a Japanese burger chain. Not good.<br />-Toured various places in Tokyo: Shibuya, Shinjuku, Asagaya (where I lived), Koenji, Kichijoji, Odaiba, Jinbocho, Nakano, Urayasu.<br />-Discovered that in the four years since I was last in Tokyo, at least one Starbucks has prominently appeared in every district.<br />-Saw a Disney-style line formed in front of Tokyo's one Krispy Kreme, near Shinjuku Station. A white-gloved employee guided people into the line and managed a sign that said: 30 minutes.<br />-Learned that when the first Burger King opened in Tokyo recently, some people waited (and still wait) several hours to eat there.<br />-Was robbed by the exchange rate and fees to the tune of 8 cents per dollar I exchanged.<br />-Wrote over 100 pages in a travel journal and took almost 500 photographs.<br />-Watched a Japanese friend get written up by a policeman in Asagaya after ignoring a command to stop our guitar-playing and singing in a park at 1 a.m.<br />-Read Tolstoy's <em>Hadji Murad</em>, Murakami's <em>Kafka on the Shore</em>, Northrop Frye's <em>The Educated Imagination </em>(a book about the importance of literature), Walker's <em>Prompt and Utter Destruction: Truman and the Use of Atomic Bombs Against Japan, </em>and about half of McCormack's <em>The Emptiness of Japanese Affluence </em>and Virgil's <em>Aeneid.</em><br />-Discovered new Japanese music and brought home seven CDs.<br />-Visited a used English-language bookstore in Jinbocho; the bookstore had some incredibly rare books, including a complete set of the <em>Criterion</em>, the journal T.S. Eliot edited, and many first-edition books by John Steinbeck, my favorite American author.<br />-Bought Japanese books: the collected early poems of Tanigawa Shuntaro (some of which I am going to translate this year), a book on homes in Tokyo, and others. Also bought several used books in English.<br /><br />The trip was a complete success. I was glad to be in Japan, and now I am glad to be back. Everything starts on Monday: classes in the M.A. program at Chicago, cross-country practice, editorial meetings at the <em>Maroon</em>, and another year of work at D'Angelo Law Library.<div class="blogger-post-footer">---
Ryan McCarl
Homepage: http://ryanmccarl.com
Wide Awake Minds: http://www.wideawakeminds.com
Blog: http://blog.ryanmccarl.com
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ryanmccarl
Facebook: http://fb.wideawakeminds.com</div>
