+++
title = "Dietrich Bonhoeffer's 'Letters and Papers from Prison'"
date = 2007-06-10T15:49:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T21:16:46Z
tags = ["theology", "Steinbeck", "finance", "Christianity", "personal"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/109901750264132233987"
+++

After finishing Steinbeck's <span style="font-style: italic;">East of Eden </span>this week, I turned my attention to Dietrich Bonhoeffer's <span style="font-style: italic;">Letters and Papers from Prison</span>.  <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dietrich_Bonhoeffer">Bonhoeffer</a> was an incredible man with an incredible story.  He was an innovative theologian and an erudite scholar, and he wrote several highly influential books before his thirtieth birthday.  Refusing to escape the fate of his family, friends, and church, Bonhoeffer - a German - turned down an invitation to repatriate to America in 1939.  In Spring 1943, he was imprisoned by the Nazis, and two years later, on April 9, 1945, he was executed.  During his two years in prison, he corresponded with his family and a friend on the Italian front; the <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Letters-Papers-Prison-Dietrich-Bonhoeffer/dp/0334028361/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/104-4601658-5091105?ie=UTF8&s=books&amp;qid=1181506557&sr=8-1">letters</a> are some of the most inspirational documents I've ever read, and they display an incredible level of humility, patience, and strength in adversity.  One needn't be a Christian to find peace and reassurance in Bonhoeffer's writings.  Here are a few of the many passages that I found worth remembering:<br />...<br /><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">And though the world outside be mad,<br />Christian or unchristian,<br />Yet the world, the beautiful world<br />Is utterly indestructible</span>.<br /><br />All I need to bring that home to me is a few autumn flowers, the view from my cell window, and half an hour's exercise in the courtyard.  But in the last resort, the world, for me at any rate, consists of those few we would like to see, and whose company we long to share.  ...And if I could also hear a good sermon on Sundays - I often here fragments of the chorales carried up here on the breeze - it would be better still.<br />...<br />As we were all lying on the floor [during an air raid] yesterday, someone muttered "O God, O God" - he is normally a frivolous sort of chap - but I couldn't bring myself to offer him any Christian encouragement or comfort.  All I did was to glance at my watch and say: "It won't last any more than ten minutes now."  There was nothing premeditated about it; it came quite automatically, though perhaps I had a feeling that it was wrong to force religion down his throat just then.  Incidentally, Jesus himself did not try to convert the two thieves on the cross; he waited until one of them turned to him.<br />...<br />As compared with marriage and the ties of kindred, friendship has no generally recognized rights, and is therefore wholly dependent on its own inherent quality.<br />...<br />The idea that we could have avoided many of life's difficulties if we had taken things more quietly is one that cannot be taken seriously for a moment.  As I look back on your past I am sure that everything has turned out for the best, and so we have every reason to hope that what is happening at the present can only be for the best too.  To renounce a full life and all its joys in order to escape pain is neither Christian nor human....<br />...<br />Nothing can make up for the absence of someone whom we love, and it would be wrong to try to find a substitute; we must simply hold out and see it through. That sounds very hard at first, but at the same time it is a great consolation, for the gap, as long as it remains unfilled, preserves the bonds between us. It is nonsense to say that God fills the gap; God does not fill it, but on the contrary, God keeps it empty and so helps us keep alive our former communion with each other, even at the cost of pain.<br /><br />The dearer and richer our memories, the more difficult the separation. But gratitude changes the pangs of memory into a tranquil joy. The beauties of the past are borne, not as a thorn in the flesh, but as a precious gift in themselves. We must take care not to wallow in our memories or to hand ourselves over to them, just as we do not gaze all the time at a valuable present, but only at special times, and apart from these keep it simply as a hidden treasure that is ours for certain. In this way the past gives us lasting joy and strength.<br />...<br />Another point, I am sure it is best not to talk to strangers about our feelings; that only makes matters worse, though we should always be ready to listen to the troubles of others.  Above all, we must never give way to self-pity.<br />...<br />...We ought to love God in our <span style="font-style: italic;">lives</span> and in all the blessings he sends us.  We should trust him in our lives, so that when our time comes, but not before, we may go to him in love and trust and joy.  But, speaking frankly, to long for the transcendent when you are in your wife's arms is, to put it mildly, a lack of taste, and it is certainly not what God expects of us.  We ought to find God  and love him in the blessings he sends us.  If he pleases to grant us some overwhelming earthly bliss, we ought not to try and be more religious than God himself.  ...Once a man has found God in his earthly bliss and has thanked him for it, there will be plenty of opportunities for him to remind himself that these earthly pleasures are only transitory, and that it is good for him to accustom himself to the idea of eternity, and there will be many hours in which he can say with all sincerity, "I would that I were home."  But everything in its season, and the important thing is to keep step with God, and not get a step or two in front of him....  It is arrogance to want to have everything at once - matrimonial bliss, and the cross, and the heavenly Jerusalem.<br />...<br />In a word, live together in the forgiveness of your sins, for without it no human fellowship, least of all a marriage, can survive.  Don't insist on your rights, don't blame each other, don't judge or condemn each other, don't find fault with each other, but take one another as you are, and forgive each other every day from the bottom of your hearts.<br />...<br />I have just read this in Jean Paul: "The only joys which can stand the fires of adversity are the joys of home."  ...I wish you a happy day from the bottom of my heart, and shall be with you in spirit.  May your thoughts about me be confined to happy memories of the past and hopes for the future.<div class="blogger-post-footer">---
Ryan McCarl
Homepage: http://ryanmccarl.com
Wide Awake Minds: http://www.wideawakeminds.com
Blog: http://blog.ryanmccarl.com
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ryanmccarl
Facebook: http://fb.wideawakeminds.com</div>
