+++
title = "Excerpts from Milosz, Balthasar, and Stevens"
date = 2008-04-17T22:19:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T21:58:54Z
tags = ["nature", "theology", "literature", "poetry", "economics", "religion", "writing"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/109901750264132233987"
+++

Among the many definitions of Communism, perhaps one would be the most apt: enemy of orchards. For the disappearance of villages and the remodeling of the terrain necessitated cutting down the orchards once surrounding every house and hut. The idea of collective farming - grain factories instead of little peasant lots - was rational, but with a vengeance, and a similar vengeance lurking in practically every project of the planned economy brought about the downfall of the Soviet system.<br /><br />Orchards under Communism had no chance, but in all fairness let us concede that they are antique by their very nature. Only the passion of a gardener can delight in growing a great variety of trees, each producing a small crop of fruit whose tastes pleases the gardener himself and a few connoisseurs. Market laws favor a few species that are easy to preserve and correspond to basic standards.<br />...<br />Much was going on inside me, and I was stunned by the strength of that current for which no name seemed adequate. It was like waking up from a long dream and becoming again the person whom I have never ceased to be.<br /><br />Czeslaw Milosz<br />--"Happiness"<br /><br />One would like to astound the world, to save the world, but one can do neither. We are summoned to deeds that are of moment only to our village.<br /><br />Czeslaw Milosz<br />--"Who Was I?"<br /><br />If I am not wise, then why must I pretend to be? If I am lost, why must I pretend to have ready counsel for my contemporaries? But perhaps the value of communication depends on the acknowledgment of one's own limits, which, mysteriously, are also limits common to many others; and aren't these the same limits of a hundred or a thousand years ago? And when the air is filled with the clamor of analysis and conclusion, would it be entirely useless to admit you do not understand?<br /><br />I have read many books, but to place all those volumes on top of one another and stand on them would not add a cubit to my stature. Their learned terms are of little use when I try to seize naked experience, which eludes all accepted ideas.<br /><br />Czeslaw Milosz<br />--"My Intention"<br /><br />The man who stakes his all on this one thing wins all, but he must of course reckon with the loss of everything else excluded by this one thing.<br /><br />Hans Urs von Balthasar<br />--<em>The Moment of Christian Witness</em><br /><br />Why should she give her bounty to the dead?<br />What is divinity if it can come<br />Only in silent shadows and in dreams?<br />Shall she not find in comforts of the sun,<br />In pungent fruit and bright green wings, or else<br />In any balm or beauty of the earth,<br />Things to be cherished like the thought of heaven?<br />Divinity must live within herself:<br />Passions of rain, or moods in falling snow;<br />Grievings in loneliness, or unsubdued<br />Elations when the forest blooms; gusty<br />Emotions on wet roads on autumn nights;<br />All pleasures and all pains, remembering<br />The bough of summer and the winter branch.<br />These are the measures destined for her soul.<br />...<br />Shall our blood fail? Or shall it come to be<br />The blood of paradise? And shall the earth<br />Seem all of paradise that we shall know?<br />The sky will be much friendlier then than now,<br />A part of labor and a part of pain,<br />And next in glory to enduring love,<br />Not this dividing and indifferent blue.<br /><br />Wallace Stevens<br />--<em>From</em> "Sunday Morning"<div class="blogger-post-footer">---
Ryan McCarl
Homepage: http://ryanmccarl.com
Wide Awake Minds: http://www.wideawakeminds.com
Blog: http://blog.ryanmccarl.com
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ryanmccarl
Facebook: http://fb.wideawakeminds.com</div>
