+++
title = "Readings from C. Taylor, J.T. Johnson, and the US Catholic Bishops"
date = 2009-04-30T00:04:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T22:02:54Z
tags = ["war", "ethics", "Christianity", "international law", "nuclear weapons", "America", "religion", "just war theory"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/109901750264132233987"
+++

<span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-size:small;">Faith does not insulate us from the challenges of life; rather, it intensifies our desire to help solve them....  From the resources of our faith we wish to provide hope and strength to all who seek a world free of the nuclear threat.  Hope sustains one's capacity to live with danger without being overwhelmed by it; hope is the will to struggle against obstacles even when they appear insuperable.  Ultimately our hope rests in the God who gave us life, sustains the world by his power and has called us to revere the lives of every person and all peoples.<br />...<br />As Americans, citizens of the nation which was first to produce atomic weapons, which has been the only one to use them and which today is one of the handful of nations capable of decisively influencing the course of the nuclear age, we have grave human, moral, and political responsibilities to see that a "conscious choice" is made to save humanity.</span><br /><br />United States Catholic Bishops<br />--<em>The Challenge of Peace: God's Promise and Our Response - The Pastoral Letter on War and Peace</em><br /><br /><span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-size:small;">The definition of combatancy and noncombatancy follows from direct involvement in prosecuting the war, not from one's citizenship or one's personal preference among the belligerents.  It is action that matters, not attitude.  For this reason, I regard the use of the term </span><em><span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-size:small;">civilian</span></em><span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-size:small;"> in the Protocols to the Geneva Conventions as misleading: it is not civilian status that matters, as irregular soldiers may technically be civilians; what matters is whether people are engaged in combatant activity or not.  The relevant moral term is </span><em><span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-size:small;">noncombatant</span></em><span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-size:small;">, even though the language of the protocols uses </span><em><span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-size:small;">civilian</span></em><span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-size:small;">, and this usage has seeped into the moral debate at times.</span><br /><br />James Turner Johnson<br />--<em>The War to Oust Saddam Hussein: Just War and the New Face of Conflict</em><br /><br /><span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-size:small;">In the following chapters, I will be making a continuing polemic against what I call "subtraction stories."  Concisely put, I mean by this stories of modernity in general, and secularity in particular, which explain them by human beings having lost, or sloughed off, or liberated themselves from certain earlier, confining horizons, or illusions, or limitations of knowledge.  What emerges from this process - modernity or secularity - is to be understood in terms of underlying features of human nature which were there all along, but had been impeded by what is now set aside.  Against this kind of story, I will steadily be arguing that Western modernity, including its secularity, is the fruit of new inventions, newly constructed self-understandings and related practices, and can't be explained in terms of perennial features of human life.</span><br /><br />Charles Taylor<br />--<em>A Secular Age</em><div class="blogger-post-footer">---
Ryan McCarl
Homepage: http://ryanmccarl.com
Wide Awake Minds: http://www.wideawakeminds.com
Blog: http://blog.ryanmccarl.com
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ryanmccarl
Facebook: http://fb.wideawakeminds.com</div>
