+++
title = "Readings on Easter, Just War Theory, and Japanese lit"
date = 2008-03-23T02:12:00Z
updated = 2011-03-06T21:13:46Z
tags = ["Donald Keene", "literature", "Christianity", "theology", "war", "Japan", "love", "Kawabata Yasunari", "international relations", "travel", "Kobayashi Hideo", "just war theory"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/109901750264132233987"
+++

Happy Easter! <br /><br />---<br /><br />The resurrection of Jesus is the sign to the world that God indeed does reign, does give life in death and that the love of God is stronger even than death (Rom. 8:36-39).<br />...<br />At the center of the church's teaching on peace and at the center of all Catholic social teaching, are the transcendence of God and the dignity of the human person.  The human person is the clearest reflection of God's presence in the world; all of the church's work in pursuit of both justice and peace is designed to protect and promote the dignity of every person.  For each person not only reflects God, but is the expression of God's creative work and the meaning of Christ's redemptive ministry.  Christians approach the problem of war and peace with fear and reverence.  God is the Lord of life, and so each human life is sacred; modern warfare threatens the obliteration of human life on a previously unimaginable scale.<br /><br />U.S. Catholic Bishops<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">The Challenge of Peace: God's Promise and Our Response (The Pastoral Letter on War and Peace, 1983)</span><br /><br />No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.  <span id="en-NIV-28140" class="sup"></span>For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, <span id="en-NIV-28141" class="sup"></span>neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.<br /><br />Romans 8:37-39<br /><br />The aggressor is always peace-loving; he would prefer to take over our country unopposed.<br /><br />-Carl Von Clausewitz, quoted in J.T. Turner, "Threats, Values and Defense: Does the Defense of Values by Force Remain a Moral Possibility?"<br /><br />***<br /><br />His desire for a woman was not of a sort to make him want this particular woman - it was something to be taken care of lightly and with no sense of guilt.  This woman was too clean.<br />...<br />The window of the waiting-room was clear for an instant as the train started to move.  Komako's face glowed forth, and as quickly disappeared.<br />...<br />But this love would leave behind it nothing so definite as a piece of Chijimi.  Though cloth to be worn is among the most short-lived of craftworks, a good piece of Chijimi, if it has been taken care of, can be worn quite unfaded a half-century and more after weaving.  As Shimamura thought absently how human intricacies have not even so long a life, the image of Komako as the mother of another man's children suddenly floated into his mind.  He looked around, startled.  Possibly he was tired.<br />...<br />He leaned against the brazier, provided against the coming of the snowy season, and thought how unlikely it was that he would come again once he had left.<br />...<br />Komako had come up to him, he did not know when.  She took his hand.  He looked around at her but said nothing.  She gazed at the fire, the pulse of the fire beating on her intent, slightly flushed face.  Shimamura felt a violent rising in his chest.  Komako's hair was coming undone, and her throat was bare and arched.  His fingers trembled from the urge to touch it.  His hand was warm, but Komako's was still warmer.  He did not know why he should feel that a separation was forcing itself upon them.<br /><br />Kawabata Yasunari<br />  --<span style="font-style: italic;">Snow Country</span><br /><br />Obviously he did not much enjoy reading and discussing a typical month's production of Japanese literature.  In a 1935 essay Kobayashi expressed his annoyance with authors who complained that he had not been sufficiently kind in his reviews, and asked sardonically what kindness contemporary authors have ever shown their critics.  The only kindness a critic really wants from authors is that they will supply him with the basis for writing decent criticism; but present-day authors do precisely the opposite.<br /><br />Donald Keene<br /> --<span style="font-style: italic;">Dawn to the West: A History of Japanese Literature (Vol. 4)</span><div class="blogger-post-footer">---
Ryan McCarl
Homepage: http://ryanmccarl.com
Wide Awake Minds: http://www.wideawakeminds.com
Blog: http://blog.ryanmccarl.com
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ryanmccarl
Facebook: http://fb.wideawakeminds.com</div>
