+++
title = "Recent readings on psychology, religion, and politics"
date = 2008-02-28T02:40:00Z
updated = 2008-02-28T03:20:40Z
tags = ["theology", "Karl Barth", "love", "psychology", "politics", "history", "Christianity", "Friedrich Nietzsche", "religion", "solitude"]
blogimport = true
[author]
	name = "Ryan McCarl"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/109901750264132233987"
+++

Even in mundane situations, the individual must <em>act</em> in order to discover what he is and he must act in order to continue experiencing aspects of himself which he values and enjoys.  If he thinks of himself as a businessman, a parent, an athlete, an intellectual, he must engage in behavior appropriate to this self-image.  If he does not, he must redefine himself, or he will be left feeling anxious and needful.  (Here is the reason for the psychological shock of retirement; the man who has retired may find that suddenly he can no longer <em>be </em>that which he most valued himself for being.) <br /><br />Past actions through which he sought to know and to accept the self are not capable of satisfying this need in the present.  Recalling the past can only remind the individual of what he used to be.  The erstwhile football hero who is still reliving the big game fifteen years later, or the ex-campus queen who tries to give meaning to her life by clinging to her reign over the prom of a decade ago, are pathetic figures.  As the existentialists have pointed out, man must act in order to be, and what he becomes is largely the summation of his actions.<br />...<br />Paradoxical though it may seem, it is when the individual is with others that he is best able to enjoy and expand many aspects of himself, to refine and verify his self-image.<br />...<br />Men hate in others those things - and only those things - which they despise in themselves.  It is possible to disapprove of other people in a rational and dispassionate manner, but to hate them is an irrational and impassioned act.  The passion betrays the underlying self-contempt.<br />...<br />Distance enables the lover to see his beloved purely in terms of the projections he hangs on her.<br />...<br />The general rule is that people who enjoy life enjoy marriage. Some people would be unhappy with any spouse, for they do not allow themselves happiness.<br /><br />Snell Putney and Gail J. Putney<br />--<em>The Adjusted American</em><br /><br />That hatred springs more from self-contempt than from a legitimate grievance is seen in the intimate connection between hatred and a guilty conscience.<br /><br />-Eric Hoffer<br /><br />Insanity in individuals is something rare - but in groups, parties, nations, and epochs, it is the rule.<br /><br />-Friedrich Nietzsche<br /><br />If our faith is real, it must encroach upon our life. The Christian Confession in its original Church form will always be exposed to the misunderstanding that the Christian regards the Creed as a matter of heart and conscience, but that here on earth and in the world other truths hold good. The world lives in this misunderstanding; it regards the whole of Christianity as a friendly 'magic', connected with the 'realm of religion', which is respected and which ought to be left untampered with; and so we get rid of the matter! But this misunderstanding might even have come from within; a Christian might quite well wish to have this realm for himself and to guard faith like a sensitive plant. The relationship between the Church and the world has been widely understood as a question of a fixing of frontiers, whereby each secured itself behind its own frontier, although from time to time it came to a skirmish. From the Church's standpoint, however, such a fixing of frontiers can never exhaust its task. By the very nature of the Christian Church there is only one task, to make the Confession heard in the sphere of the world as well.<br />...<br />Let us beware of remaining stuck where we are and refusing to advance to meet worldly attitudes. For instance, in Germany in 1933 there was plenty of serious, profound and living Christianity and confession.... But unfortunately this faith and confession of the German Church remained embedded in the language of the Church, and did not translate what was being excellently said in the language of the Church into the political attitude demanded at the time; in which it would have become clear that the Evangelical Church had to say 'No' to National Socialism, 'No' from its very roots.<br /><br />Karl Barth<br />--<em>Dogmatics in Outline</em><div class="blogger-post-footer">---
Ryan McCarl
Homepage: http://ryanmccarl.com
Wide Awake Minds: http://www.wideawakeminds.com
Blog: http://blog.ryanmccarl.com
Twitter: http://twitter.com/ryanmccarl
Facebook: http://fb.wideawakeminds.com</div>
